Hi darling Julie,

It's bit hard to explain myself with the tension between ourselves at the
moment, so I thought I'd use email.

I really am on track, and preparing for a programming job, however, it's not
like applying for a gardening position. It's more like preparing for an exam. I
need to have my shit together.

I could apply for a junior web developer position, or it support, and I might
have to, but I would like to work in a proper programming job. So I need to know
my stuff. 

I am organising my source code, making inventory of what I know and not know,
practicing in my head how to answer this or that question etc.

I have my resume together, it's just a bit empty, but it is easily produced and
edited, and comes out professional. 

I have a draft of a cover letter that mentions all the points I need to mention,
since I think it is going to hinge on the cover letter, not the resume.

It needs to point to work I've actually done.

See below:

    Dear <..>

    Attached is my CV for your consideration.

    - Obviously sparse.., maybe excuse the slightly longer cover letter. Apologize
     for asking the addressee to take the extra time.
    - Self taught pianist and programmer, autodidact.
    - Science preparatory school, maths, philosophy and history at uni in Amsterdam before
     settling on piano, finished music degree in Brisbane.
    - Github as only credentials unfortunately. Edge??, roster??, dpi??
    - Built own web server and framework, and a number of modules, 
    - Plans and ideas for multiple apps/utilities 
    - Familiar and/or knowledgeable of most current libs/trends/frameworks/languages
    - Not fond of OOPS, prefer functional approach
    - Most current software in javascript, but also programmed (in the past) in C,
     Java and even Pascal and Basic.
    - Favorite language: Lisp and any language like it (Clojure, CLisp, Scheme,
    - Picolisp and interested in even more modern incarnations such as Julia)
    - Studying CS curriculum when time allows
    - As far as javascript concerned, interested in web apps, not so much web sites,
     and any technology that will make web apps easier to make, front and backend.
    - Working knowledge of html and css (and sass and less etc), but not overly fond of it.
    - Would love the opportunity to work with any of the more modern 
     languages such as Haskell, Julia, D, Rust, Go, Clojure and Scala, but sticking
     with Javascript for now for reasons of marketability.
    - Dream project: write Lisp operating system..
    - Main interest: computer systems' software reliability, robustness. Ultimately
     software should be somehow self repairing and self-reliant and with built-in redundancy, and as a whole extremely fault tolerant.  
    - Developed some websites, IT support etc
    - Developed roster, time tracking app.

    My own personal website axion5.net lists and summarizes undertaken projects and websites.

    Referees:

    David Isit

    Manager of Pave the Way at Mamre Association Inc. 

    Thank you for your time in considering my application.

    Yours sincerely,

    Michiel van Oosten

    ph: 04135 20477


I think the best would be startups, and I'm trying to get a feel of the scene,
here and in Amsterdam/Europe.

I also want/need to develop ideas of my own that could lead to a startup
(business). First reason is that that would be ideal, making money by being at
home and selling software services over the net, but secondly, and more
importantly, it gives me something to talk about, and enthusiastic about in
interviews and contact with other developers. And you never know, somebody might
come on board, or is willing to let me develop some of the ideas.

Some of the ideas of these startups are so stupid and simple, and yet they get
funding and make money. They say the value of a startup is not so much the idea,
but the actually making it happen. And some of these startups are making these
really silly ideas happen, such as pulling data from linkedin and presenting it
in a graph (http://vizualize.me/). 

I think any source code I write is going to help. I did the Thoughtworks code
challenges, there are some sample logic tests I have and can do, and I've been
working through sample interview questions found on the net.

I still a bit shitty about not having done the Edge app. I dropped it because of
the negative vibe around it I think. But I actually have clear ideas about how
to put it together. I just started to think about the backend/server side of it,
since they were talking about selling the app as a service (like dropbox or
trello). So I got big ideas of how to implement that, and I wrote some test
cases and demo apps to see if it was possible. And I think it is. And ever from
then on, I notice all these other efforts in the same direction as I was
thinking of, but not quite the same. 

So even if it is too late for Damien perhaps, I can still develop and sell Edge. With
the infrastructure in place I can also distribute and manage a roster app, a
personalinfo app, an invoice app (linked to trello), etc.

But to develop these ideas, and implement them, takes time. Which I've taken a
bit the last few weeks because it's still worth it in regards to interviews
etc. At least I made a start of it, with the developing of these ideas, this
puts me in a better position, also mentally myself.

Also going from my laptop to the machine at Editshare and my own desktop made me
lose a lot of time setting up things etc, so I've decided to just stick with one
machine, a laptop, for all development work and put anything essential on the
net, and have a strategy in place to rebuild a laptop's setup if necessary.

Most proper work is done thinking anyway, a bigger screen doesn't make that
easier, and I only have to maintain one computer this way, and I'm locked up in
a cave etc.

As far as interviews are concerned, I've got my resume, my coverletter (draft), my
source code organised (somewhat), some solid ideas of what to make myself etc.,
job market researched (startups, job boards). Now I am going to actually study
these interview practice books, and work on edge and the firstdoor blog. Does
that make sense?

There's nothing I want more than leave Brisbane. I think I really miss the
feedback from a nice environment/city/culture etc. All inspiration has to come
from yourself in this place. 

I also want to make one of these days the personalinfo proposal. But time flies.

Hope this makes sense somewhat.

I'll probably write the coverletter properly this week, and study the interview
book so I can start sending out applications and see what happens.

Love Michiel


